and welcome back to a fresh episode of
business growth show I'm your host Sam
Dunning co-owner over at webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
our weekly email where I share actual
website and B2B marketing tips useful
podcasts free goodies resources and more
to kick off your week with a bang why
not give it a try over at businessgrowth
dot emails
so today I'm Tara Robertson joining us
on the show she's a demand generation
manager over at chili Piper Tara welcome
back to the show how you doing
good thanks so much for having me back
Sam no worries so today we're gonna be
talking all about why you shouldn't
discount and how it's actually going to
grow your B2B company so I'm sure a lot
of people are reading this headline and
thinking hey discounts will there that's
not something we like to do but they
usually get deals over the line so first
and foremost are a very wide open
question but why shouldn't companies
discount I thought it was like the done
thing
and software right it's a pretty common
thing than people for sure that's the
way to get the signature get it over the
line
um yeah so this was really inspired by
our head of sales wrote a post all about
this because it's a question that we get
a lot at chili Piper so like a lot of
software we're based on number of seats
or number of licenses is how we charge
so a lot of companies that charge that
way you can kind of work your way into a
deal get a discount at the end of the
month kind of thing so there's a ton of
reasons why we don't discount but I
think the biggest one for me is
especially as someone who as a marketer
that buys software is I want to know
that I'm getting a fair deal and I'm
paying the same as everyone else and
once you start getting into discount
territory you start to have people
comparing notes saying hey I only paid
10 bucks a month but my friend over here
is paying 20. what's up with that why
like I referred them to you guys so it's
just kind of a slippery slope of
impacting that whole customer experience
yeah I suppose that's the thing like for
me practically it sounds amazing I mean
it sounds like if we could never
discount a customer it means our profit
margins are going to stay consistent our
Revenue growth is going to be consistent
um and also like you mentioned there
it's not going to cause friction between
customers or prospects in our sales
pipeline because perhaps they've heard
from maybe a friend or a contact that
they got a deal they got five percent
ten percent off their annual
subscription or whatever it may be and
they've told them and they're thinking
well why is the sales rep not offering
me this deal like I'm quite annoyed like
I really want them to give me this now
so I can see that it can cause a few
headaches as well
um yeah and we're all about eliminating
that friction kind of earlier in this
sales process that's our whole deal as a
company so it just makes sense that we
would extend that down the funnel as
well and try to eliminate that friction
when you're in that kind of opportunity
stage and you're close to making a
decision yeah yeah so how does how do
you recommend teams handle it so I mean
it's it's a common thing right
especially like you say in software
sales and Tech sales how how do your
team handle it when when prospects do
say well look I'm I'm really interested
in the product I like what you guys are
doing I like what you put together but
if you can just give me a a slight
discount then I'm happy to sign today or
this week or whatever that they're
trying to push anyway I mean how does
your team how do you recommend people
handle that
yeah I think again if you do discount
that one time to get a deal signed
other people will probably hear about it
so it's not going to be a one-time thing
which is the one thing that we
definitely keep in mind
um the other piece is that
we just know that that again going back
to that friction and making the sales
cycle faster if you think about the last
time you bought something that back and
forth of negotiating is usually what
took the longest right so we're trying
to eliminate that and one way that we
approach it on the sales side is we work
with the customer to say hey what are
your goals when do you want to be live
with this on your website and we try to
position it that way versus let's sign
by the end of the month just because I
want to hit my quota as a rep it's more
position of how can we get that customer
hitting their goals faster and work with
their timeline got it and is is that one
of the main things that you think
enables you to as an organization
organization in other organizations too
to to not discount is to actually more
so align with the customer understand
what their goals their pain points their
objectives their timelines are and make
sure that you achieve and deliver on
that and then like we've had sales
trainers on the shows in the past where
you kind of say well look when we
initialed initially chatted in your
Discovery call you said that you needed
this in place by this date because if
that doesn't happen then maybe I don't
know you'll you're going to miss your
financial end of year or you're going to
miss this certain sales Target you've
got or your website is going to
encounter issue or whatever that was and
then go back to that rather than placing
emphasis on the on the actual size of
the deal or the pricing
right exactly it's more about
you came to us originally or we talked
to you originally and you agreed that
there was a problem that we could fix
together so let's work towards that
versus discounting like ten dollars here
ten dollars there it's just working
towards that final goal instead yeah
yeah yeah and share a bit more with us
Tara about how it can actually speed up
sales Cycles because I'm quite
interested to to know what's what's
happened for yourself or any any
examples that you could share with us on
on that side of things
yeah so just from
just from experience when I've reached
out to different companies and
the question of hey I
have negotiation process work typically
if they don't respond no right away then
that really drags out the process at
least in my experience so obviously our
sales team their goal is to close Deals
they want to make the customer happy get
them up and running on their site they
don't want to be kind of going back and
forth and we know the more steps in that
sales process the more likely you are to
lose the deal right and have them
kind of just dragging their feet maybe
looking at other options so we just want
to make it super transparent of how much
you'll pay and what the value is that
you'll get out of it yeah yeah yeah
um yeah I get that it's the haggling the
negotiation process can take quite a bit
of back and forth especially if there's
a lot of stakeholders involved and if
you're doing on emails and it's going
back and forth on threads or you're
organizing calls and I can see that that
can push back timelines
um
yeah so in terms of kind of that side of
things I know when um I know the article
you put together and when we're
discussing pre-show you mentioned that
the dark funnel can can help when it
comes to not discounting
um so I'd love to know or I love you to
share a bit more with the audience about
what the dark funnel actually involves
and how this can kick into play here
sure yeah so if you follow any of our
content you might have heard us speak
about this before but at a super high
level it's by the time especially in B2B
by the time your prospect books a demo
reaches out to contact your sales team
they've done their research they've
talked to their peers they're checking
you out in communities they might even
already know what your pricing is just
by asking and say a slack Community for
a marketing Ops for example so if you
are trying to kind of change the pricing
on them or offer discounts to certain
customers and not everyone that will get
out there people will find out so that's
the way that we like to think of it as
really just making your pricing as
transparent as possible and
channels like again those communities
even things like G2 or other
um review sites where you can post that
pricing if you can be as transparent as
possible then you're just going to get
more qualified people coming to you
right because if you think in your head
oh this tool must cost around 100 a
month but really it's more like a
thousand or ten thousand maybe you'll
kind of self-disqualify yourself and
you'll look at another solution instead
so you might lose some people right off
the bat but you'll have much more
qualified people coming to talk to your
sales team yeah yeah yeah I mean that's
like you say that's certainly the way
things are going people do a heck of a
lot more research nowadays weather is
checking out your website maybe they've
seen you on social media they've seen
some of your company team personal posts
they've gone through to your site or
maybe they've seen your company your
brand posts or maybe they found you on a
search engine or maybe they've seen you
on a review site and then they're
checking out your site they're checking
out more about what you do your pricing
and then like you say that maybe they're
speaking to their peers or they're in a
community group with kind of like-minded
individuals and they're talking about
the product like what products do you
recommend for this this service and then
they're saying well this is great but
maybe the price is this and so there's a
lot that goes on like you say in a dark
dark funnel dark social behind the
scenes that you can't necessarily
control
but if you're if you are discounting if
you are changing your pricing if you are
offering people special discounts and it
could be I guess hamstringing you
um because people are basically speaking
and you're never going to know about
those conversations behind close to us
yeah exactly and it's tough to keep on
top of everything which is kind of where
the whole dark comes from right I mean
you can have social media managers you
can have Community managers but you
can't see every conversation that's
happening and I know just for myself
I've seen conversations of hey how much
did you guys pay for this in a slack
Channel with like 50 marketers and that
company probably isn't in that slack
channel so they don't even know this
conversation is happening but then a
whole thread will start of oh just wait
till the end of the month wait until
this and you can get 10 off so those
conversations are happening whether you
can see them or not hmm because that's
probably one of the
one of the biggest things for for sales
people especially like end of month end
of quarter because typically not every
organization but a lot of organization
offers incentives whether that is
commission whether that's bonuses
whether that's trips away for
president's Club so a lot of sales reps
I I feel feel a lot of pressure
to hit targets if you're of your team
kind of
had any kind of conversations around
that or if they just put in place like
these are these are firm guidelines and
guys and they need to be followed or has
there been any has there been a I guess
what I'm asking really is was there any
pushback internally
yeah so what's interesting is when and
we have a chart on this in the article
that I could share if people are
interested but we actually still do have
our biggest days towards the end of the
month even though we don't discount so
when I joined that was a surprise to me
because I had not come from a company
that had this policy before it's pretty
unique
um but if you look at our numbers in
Salesforce and the chart in this post
you'll see at the end of the last week
of the month we still do bring in the
bulk of our Revenue so even though it
seems a little bit counter-intuitive
that there wouldn't be that sense of
urgency without discounts our sales team
is still doing a really great job of
getting that sense of urgency across to
the customer and again a lot of that
comes back to what were your goals if we
get this live by the end of the month
then you'll be able to do X next month
and really focusing on the time to value
is what we call it yeah yeah yeah I
guess it's it sounds like a lot of this
is having quite a transparent discussion
up front with your prospect with your
customers to getting those expectations
firm and clear so there's not really any
disputes that might come back and bite
you later in themselves like whether
that's because they've talked to their
peers and they've worked out they're
getting a discount whether they've kind
of seen something else else where or
whether they're just trying to push you
but I suppose if you're quite firm from
day one then all of this is is going to
pay off dividends for yourself your team
and your Revenue
right and we are super transparent I
mean you can see our pricing on our
website but we also during the demo call
with our AE they pull up a calculator
and show the re the
um the customer hey you have how many
reps how many leads do you get and they
go through the process right with the
screen share so they can see how the
pricing is calculated it's not some
mystery discount is applied for certain
companies and not you it's very very
transparent and I think again that helps
because when people do talk in channels
that we can't see yeah everyone's had
the same experience yeah yeah have you
got any recommendations Tara for any
companies that are quite discount heavy
especially in those peak times months
and quarter end but might want to
transition to a similar model have you
any tips and kind of ideas on how they
can transition from where they are now
and kind of steps that they should put
into play
it's really tough because like I said
it's a slippery slope right because once
you start people are going to have that
screenshot of hey I saw in the slack
group that this happened so we're very
lucky that this has been our policy from
day one we've never strayed from it it's
it's very tough to walk back
um I think one way you could look at it
is just have a very firm kind of end
date or maybe it's this quarter maybe
it's 2023 starting that day and we're
not doing any discounts but you have to
be super firm or again you'll slip back
into that same pattern yeah yeah we had
um we had jet blunt on the show a while
back so scary sounds Legend one of my
favorite saleswalkers and he he wrote a
book recently called how to sell a price
increase which was interesting but one
of the main takeaways I took from it was
essentially having mostly what you've
been saying here to our clear
conversations with your customers and if
you are going to raise your pricing let
them know well in advance give them a
give them a phone call or have a account
manager or customer success manager give
them a call well in advance and kind of
share the exact reasons why it's
happening share the value they're
getting right now what they're going to
get as a result of it so just just a lot
of this is being very upfront giving
people advanced warning so it doesn't
come as a shock
um and those kind of things really are
just some some ideas that have helped me
and might help other people that are
tuning in today so I touched on this a
little bit
um when it comes to and a lot of we've
talked about this on past episodes but a
lot of B2B organizations a lot of tech
companies SAS companies Etc are are
quite scared to be open with their with
their pricing do you think that kind of
sharing pricing on your website is is
helpful when it comes to reducing
discounts and helping out your sales
team
yeah definitely I think for me as a
marketer the last thing I want is an
inbound lead booking a demo with a sales
rep and being completely shocked about
pricing I I best case scenario they
already have a rough idea of what the
pricing would be and they just need to
talk through their specific use case
maybe there's a product they didn't know
about but it shouldn't be getting on
that call and having sticker shock
because then to me that's not a
qualified lead in that case right
because the sales rep has to kind of
figure out with them like okay the value
is this and maybe you're there's some
misalignment here so
I I would be really nervous as a
marketer passing over those leads who
had just no idea at all what the pricing
was
yeah I mean I'm I'm firmly in the same
same camp as yourself I mean for example
we didn't share pricing on our website
until about a year ago
um and then we started getting a bunch
of inquiries whether that was for SEO
for websites or something else and they
would just they just couldn't afford
what we did so it was wasting my time my
sales team's time
um when yeah we basically put up in our
case on the agency world we we tend to
focus on a few tiers we put like
from this option A to B might be around
this bracket from this option B to C
around this pocket and this option C to
D might be around this bracket so it's
quite broad terms because project
pricing can vary compared to kind of SAS
but it meant that we were quite clear on
these are our starting rates and as a
result we got less leads but the
inquiries that we do get now are more
qualified because they have an idea what
our rates are at and they have an idea
what's included for each so then when we
get on these conversations we're not
kind of wasting the prospects time we're
not wasting our sales teams time we're
having better conversations because we
don't have to have a 20 minute Discovery
call and then they realize our price and
then they're like well that's way more
than I thought it's never going to work
and just makes everyone's lives easier I
think
right and I think going back to your
point if you were a sales rep I don't
think you would want your calendar
filled with demos of people that had a
budget of a hundred dollars like you
probably would be we'd much rather have
half the amount of meetings and people
that have had a legitimate interest and
were qualified so that's how we try to
think of it internally as well
I've spoken to quite a few this is
probably going to annoy a few people and
but I know a lot of companies still do
it I've spoken to quite a lot of senior
B2B marketers and had like debates with
them and because some of them still have
that pricing page but they they share
like some of the key benefits some of
the key problems they solve but then
they'll still have an inquiry form like
speak to our sales rep to get pricing
and usually the argument is that their
sales or their pricing page sorry is
their best converting page so it
converts super well
um it gets them a ton of leads
um but they won't often share with me
kind of how many drop off when they
speak to sales so when I asked for the
specific data I said great it sounds
like it's converting really well but how
many of those conversations with your
sales team are not qualified in the
sense that they simply don't have budget
to work with you that's always when they
get there's a sticking point on the
answer so I always throws me back to why
not just sharing like why are you
forcing people down a certain funnel or
maybe that could be a happy medium
whether that's like a pricing calculator
or some kind of interactive tool on your
website that gives people a little bit
more more info before they then set up
that cool
I think at the very least you need to
give them like a starting at kind of
price right because to your point for
something like if you're consulting or
you're helping with different projects
depending on the company you won't be
able to say it's 200 a month and that's
it but at least giving some frame of
reference because if it literally just
says fill out this form and we'll let
you know to me that as a buyer that's a
red flag that maybe they're discounting
for certain companies but not everyone
maybe I should do some hunting before I
actually fill out that form and again
for sales I don't think I would want to
be on the receiving end of those leads
that have no frame of reference
whatsoever yeah I believe them that it
converts really well but again I
wouldn't want to be receiving all those
leads either I would like to know the
percentage of which are qualified
information would be interesting but I
don't think I'm ever going to get that
day not anytime soon anyway unless they
become a client
be really curious actually if anyone
posted if they're doing that today and
they change it
um kind of what results they're seeing
and how the relationship with sales has
changed yeah yeah I'd like to test that
okay are there any other I know you
mentioned review sites are there any
other sites where you think that you
should kind of openly share pricing
details or any relevant information that
might help out your team when it comes
to avoiding discounts
thank you
other than pricing I mean on your own
site is the obvious one but we've
covered that
um review sites are a perfect one
because they're literally looking at you
versus a competitor so they want to see
okay what is the range that I should be
looking at pricing wise so that's one
site where you definitely should have
the pricing gotcha but those are the
only real ones that I that come to mind
I think the other thing is obviously
sometimes in communities people will ask
pricing and you can jump in and give the
straight answer
um but again you might not see those
conversations happening so that's a
little tougher yeah yeah yeah do you
think there's some are there any other
aspects of your website or could be
social media or elsewhere that you think
can support your sales team
um so for example sometimes when we're
working with B2B companies we actually
ask them to share things on their
website like who is a great fit for your
product and who's not and maybe talk
about like the problems you solve and
maybe share a bit more about the process
of how you actually work with teams that
can also help with the qualify
qualification stages
um any examples of those Tara that
you've seen kind of work quite well yeah
I think a lot of companies in our space
including us make a point of saying that
we're for b2be so for a tool like ours
it technically could be used in b2c use
cases but then when you compared us to
other tools you might again get sticker
shock at the pricing because you're not
using the bulk of the features that
we've built out for B2B so just being
super explicit on social on our website
that were for B2B Revenue teams B2B
marketers and sales and also just
highlighting the logos of customers that
we work with I think can help set that
frame of reference to so you might see
some familiar names and familiar logos
on that site and that would help you
just kind of realize like okay this is
for me or maybe these are just giant
Enterprise companies only and I should
explore other options yeah yeah and a
lot of this is just enabling prospects
or customers on your website so
literally giving them the information
that they're probably the sales team are
probably getting asked for day in day
out and I know a lot of companies I
speak to their sales team have to send
out like endless PDFs presentations
PowerPoints all this stuff whether
that's a pricing chart whether that's
case studies whether that's logos
they've worked with whether that's your
process and you find out you've got four
or five different PDFs or PowerPoints
some of which might be going to spam
most of which your prospects aren't
going to take the time to flick through
but if your website can be transparent
all these points we've talked about is
it's going to enable your sales team so
much more because they're not gonna have
to explain it on sales schools prospects
can just grab the information they need
see if they're a good fit see who else
you're helping understand how you work
check out what your rates are and then
when they're ready they can kind of book
that demo request that call or whatever
that next stage is and just makes
everyone's life a lot simpler I think
right and it also lets the sales rep
have more time to dive in to say other
tools that you have or other products
that the prospect maybe hadn't come
across yet but they know okay well if
your main Pro or Flagship product costs
this much then maybe we should explore
the other tools that you have where if
you have to start from scratch and they
don't know anything about your pricing
anything about
how the product works because their
website is a little bit too vague on who
it's for then instead of spending time
on those kind of basic aspects they can
dive into other use cases other ways
that your product can be used
yeah yeah yeah
um and just to wrap things up but do you
think or do you know of any
opportunities that you might lose by
taking this route that we've discussed
today so do you think there are other
situations and is that a good thing like
in terms because I know some customers
if they're continually bugging you for a
discount they might always be the best
fit
um but do you think it's it's hamstrung
or it's penalized your organization your
company in any way by taking this
approach
I can't think of a specific case where
it has yet I think there is always the
risk that some cust that some companies
just want a discount and they won't drop
it and I think that's where again with
SAS a lot of the revenue is recurring
right so if you discount 10 now you're
going to be discounting them 10 every
year and then it's a new negotiation
every time a renewal comes up so it's
not just that one-time thing yeah so I
think again if you have a policy like
this you really have to stick to your
guns because if another customer hears
hey I heard at the one-year renewal they
got this discount that we didn't get and
then your ands have to have that same
pricing conversation over and over it's
that can be tricky
um I don't know of a specific case that
that's happened with us just yet I'm
sure it comes up here and there but I
haven't been moved in on those and then
at the very top of the funnel you might
be losing people who
either just don't have the budget for
your product or are a little bit shocked
at the pricing and they're just turned
off and it can be tough to win those
people back but again you're bringing in
more qualified people than not so I
think it's worth the trade-off yeah yeah
like you say it can be become a bit of a
stable effect if if everyone is hearing
about discounts and reductions and all
that kind of thing and it's it's going
to build up over time especially like
you say when it comes to renewals people
are new in that contract and they're
just going to probably push for more
than they had before
um which is is not a great conversation
for your sales team
so yeah I think we've covered some good
ground Tire are there any other final
points that we haven't perhaps chatted
about when it comes to supporting our
sales team or anything else that we can
do outside of the cells whether that's
your website whether that's your
marketing or any other materials that
that can basically put people in the
best standpoint when it comes to not
offering discounts on their services or
their Wares
yeah I think the best thing
in the marketing perspective
value clear but before the sales call
happens so that the sales rep is really
just diving into their specific use case
and getting them excited about the
product versus educating them on what
your company does and how much it costs
I think all that again should be kind of
Baseline they should already know those
things and the call with the aid or your
am however your team is structured but
that call with the rep should be very
focused on their specific use case not
what is your company overall do and what
is that messaging so I think a lot of
that is on marketing and making sure
that you're getting in front of your
audience on whatever channels your
audience spends time on which is the
bulk of our job as marketers yeah yeah
and do you think some of that comes down
to like a demand generation play so can
some of that affect perhaps in the B2B
world if your audience is hanging out on
LinkedIn and you're putting out ads to
your to your ideal client profile and
that personas do you think some of the
ads that you put out and some of the
organic social content you put out can
that come into play and can that
reinforce and support some of these
things we've talked about definitely I
haven't seen an example of anyone on
organic social specifically having
here's what we cost here's our prices
but I think um just showing those use
cases and how many different ways your
product is used whether you're saving
people time maybe you're helping them
bring in more revenue on their own
website and just making those wins super
clears that's something that we
highlight and
pretty much all of our organic social
and also on the paid side
got it good stuff Tara thanks very much
for coming on always always enjoy having
you on the show so with that said please
do tell us more about how everyone can
connect with yourself more about chili
Piper and the best way to get in touch
sure thanks so much Sam for having me
back it's always fun
um so you can find out more about chili
Piper just on our website chilypiper.com
and we help B2B Revenue teams bring in
more Revenue more meetings from the
existing traffic that you already have
on your website and I love it if you
could connect with me on LinkedIn thanks
so much
good stuff we'll put all of those over
in the show notes over at business
growth dot marketing cheers Tara and as
always if you enjoyed today's episode a
quick subscribe or a quick rating on
your podcast channel YouTube goes a long
way and is much appreciated and with
that we should catch you on the next
episode for more no BS actual B2B
marketing tips to grow your business and
grow Revenue cheers for tuning in